In carrying out your role as a business analyst,
you'll be using some or all of these tools.
We're not going to cover these since they are the basic tools you should
either already know or have some familiarity with.
This is a partial list, of course,
but it gives you an idea of the kinds of tools and methods you should have in
your hip pocket and pull out when you think you need them.
And here is a list of typical skills that a business analyst should have.
Again, we're not going to cover these since they are the basic skills you
should already possess or have some familiarity with,
such as designing user interfaces and experiences, prototyping,
data modeling,
exploiting business data analytics, understand different software
architectures, and knowledge of off‑the‑shelf solutions.
This is a partial list,
but it gives you an idea of the kinds of skills and
capabilities you should also have.
In addition to the ones I've just mentioned, I just can't stress this
enough. To me, soft skills are the most important,
such as oral and written communication skills,
interpersonal consultative, and facilitation skills. As
you will see in the next module, solid,
healthy, and productive professional relationships based on
communication and interpersonal skills are your secret weapon in
developing requirements that added value to the business.
Also, analytical thinking and problem solving,
being detail oriented and capable of delivering a high level of accuracy,
organizational skills, and knowledge of the
business structure of where you work.
Here are a few more soft skill must haves, stakeholder analysis.
You need to seek out the stakeholders who have a vested interest in the
requirements with which the project is concerned.
Requirements engineering refers to the process of defining,
documenting, and maintaining requirements in the design process.
We're going to talk a lot about that. Cost benefit analysis.
That's a systematic approach to estimating the strengths
and weaknesses of alternatives used to determine the best
options. Process modeling.
Now that's the activity of representing processes in an enterprise so that the
current process may be analyzed, improved, and automated.
If you're not very technical,
you should still have a general understanding of networks, databases, and
the latest technology, just Google the top five technology innovations
about once a month and do a little reading and,
of course, much more.
This is just a partial list to give you the basics of soft skills I believe you must have.